### Emacs (or text editor of your choice)

While we will also use ipython notebooks and the Python IDE during the
bootcamp, in the end the process of coding mostly involves writing
code files in a text editor and running these files with Python.


## Emacs (and other text editors)

[Emacs](http://emacsformacosx.com/) is a very popular text editor for
coding. It has been around since the mid 1970s and is still being
actively developed. It is our choice of editor. It has a lot of
key-bindings (Key combinations that usually involve the ctrl or alt
keys), and you can use it completely without touching a mouse. It
takes a bit of an effort to get used to the key-bindings, but once you
do, your productivity increases a lot. *If you are not familiar with
any coding text editor, we strongly suggest learning how to use
Emacs*. To do that, you can follow
[Absolute Beginner's Guide to Emacs](http://www.jesshamrick.com/2012/09/10/absolute-beginners-guide-to-emacs/). Make
a cheat sheet of the main key-bindings (moving around, copying,
pasting, undo, etc.). You can go through this in thirty minutes to one
hour. Try to use Emacs at every chance you get, especially as you go
through the next steps of prework that involves coding. The Python
tutorial and coding exercises of Think Stats provide excellent chances
to do so. This will give you experience and get you faster.

[Sublime Text](http://www.sublimetext.com/) text is another popular
editor, but it's not free. [Vim](https://code.google.com/p/macvim/)
has been around as long as Emacs has, and shares the full-keyboard
input philosophy, but is arguably harder to learn for a beginner. If
you are already familiar with one of these or a different text editor
that highlights code syntax, you are welcome to use that.
