Statistics
==========

Allen Downey wrote great short books to introduce statistics in a fun
way, going over examples and exercises using python. They are freely
available to boot.


Think Stats
-----------
Think Stats is a great book to both refresh/learn the most critical
statistics topics and gain experience in how you'd apply statistics
analysis to problems using python. It covers typical statistics topics
from a modern, simulation/coding based perspective. The chapters are
quite concise and easy to read.

You can download a PDF or read the book online
[here](http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkstats/). Of course, if you
are so inclined, you can also buy a hard copy on Amazon, but that is
not necessary.

You can go through the entire book in 3 to 8 hours (depending on how
much time you spend on the Python code presented in the book)
Please do so. If it takes somewhat longer, do spend the time. We will
go over a lot of these topics in the bootcamp as well, but this
preparation will help you a lot, and also provides good initial
exposure to how python can be used for data analysis.

If you can finish under 10 hours, we suggest picking an exercise from
each chapter (one that sounds exciting and looks quickly doable to
you) and working on them. This is optional, but will definitely
improve your skills and bootcamp experience. Take your time with the
exercises, don't rush them. Don't push to finish something from each
chapter, if you're short on time. With these exercises even completing
a single one is an excellent bonus.


Think Bayes Chapters 1 & 2
--------------------------
Another important subject is the Bayesian approach to probability,
where "probability" is approached as "the state of knowledge" rather
than the "expected frequency" of things. This Bayesian approach is
used in a lot of data science applications. Luckily, Downey used his
method in Think Stats to write another free book on Bayes with
python-based examples and exercises. It is called Think Bayes and you
can find it [here](http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkbayes/).

Please read the first two chapters of this book will work both as a
reinforcement of probabilities (covered by Think Stats as well) and an
introduction to the Bayesian framework.
